.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Luis Otavio de Colla Furquim
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GPLv3 included in this package and also found at its original location http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html
.TH "ChironFS" "8" "1.1" "Luis Otavio de Colla Furquim" "Kernel/Filesystems"
.SH "NAME"
ChironFS \- Chiron Filesystem is a fault-tolerant replication file system.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B chironfs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIpath\fR=\fIpath\fR[=\fIpath\fR...] \fImount\-point\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Chiron FS is a FUSE based filesystem that implements replication at the
filesystem level like RAID 1 does at the device level.

Each replica \fIpath\fR is given on the command line, separated by an equal
sign ("="). If a replica path is prefixed with a colon (":"), then that
replica will be considered slower than the others and the load balancing
algorithm will choose it only if the faster replicas fail.

The \fImount\-point\fR must be an already existing directory.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-\-ctl, \-c CONTROLFILESYSTEMPATHNAME"
By providing a mountpoint with this option, ChironFS will also mount a
proc\-like filesystem intended to enable administrative functions of the
replication filesystem. Currently you can check the status of each replica
and manually change it. So, you can force disable a replica and, if you have
already reoperated a replica and synchronized it with the others, you may tell
ChironFS to use it again. The control filesystem is composed of one directory
for each replica, containing two files: the first is named "status" and
contains a number "0" for replicas in good state or a number "2" if the
replica is disabled and the data is inconsistent. By echoing "0" or "2" in
this file you enable or disable the replica. The second file, named
"check_chironfs.sh", is a script intended to run as a nagios plugin. If you
want to use it, do not copy it to another path, because its contents change
dynamically and it will not work in another path. You cannot change ownership
or permission bits on any of the files/directories in this filesystem. To
configure who can access it, change the ownership of its mount point BEFORE
mounting it. ChironFS will use this ownership to all files and directories
under it.
.TP
.B "\-\-fuseoptions FUSE OPTIONS, \-f FUSE OPTIONS"
Here you can set Fuse specific options:
     \-d \-o debug
        enable debug output (implies \-f)
     \-f
        foreground operation
     \-s
        disable multi\-threaded operation
     \-o allow_other
        allow access to other users
     \-o allow_root
        allow access to root
     \-o nonempty
        allow mounts over non\-empty file/dir
     \-o default_permissions
        enable permission checking by kernel
.br
See \fBmount.fuse\fR(8) for the full description of the available options.
.TP
.B "\-\-help, \-h, \-?"
Prints the help
.TP
.B "\-\-log FILE, \-l FILE"
Sets a log filename. If you don't set it, no log will be done at all.
.TP
.B "\-\-fsname NAME, \-n NAME"
Defines the filesystem label name, for viewing it in df or mount.
.TP
.B "\-\-quiet, \-q"
Do not print error messages to stderr, just set the exit codes.
This does not affect logging.
.TP
.B "\-\-version, \-V"
Prints version of the software.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS "
If you specify a log file using the \-l or the \-\-log command
line option you will have critical failures reported in that
file. There are two types of reports in this file: the
failure report and the disable report. The failure report
indicates the action failed, the path of the replica that
failed and the related errno message. The disable report just
tell us that a replica is being disabled and so it's
inconsistent. The reintegration process of the replica have
to be made manually in this version. We suggest you use rsync
to do it. After the data synchronization you have to remount
the chiron filesystem. A replica is disabled ONLY IF a write
operation was FAILED in the disabled replica AND the same
operation was SUCCESSFUL in another replica.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
Mount /mnt/database using three replicas: /mnt/server1, /mnt/server2 and
/mnt/backup. Note the colon before the last replica which will lower
its priority.
.PP
.nf
.RS
% chironfs /mnt/server1=/mnt/server2=:/mnt/backup /mnt/database
.RE
.fi
.pp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount.fuse(8), fusermount(1), rsync(1), heartbeat at http://linux\-ha.org/Heartbeat.
.SH "AUTHORS"
The ChironFS replication Filesystem was created by Luis Otavio de Colla Furquim.
.br
Man page rewrite and extensions by Thiébaud Weksteen <thiebaud@weksteen.fr>
